This Web Store is designed to allow new online store owners a quick and easy means to setup and perform sales and other core business over the internet.
This document will outline all of the functions, capabilities and requirements for the Web Store.
According to GAMMA-J’s functional needs statement, the web store will manage customer accounts, manage an online store inventory and manage a customer’s “Shopping Cart”.
The web store will confirm orders.
The web store will have an unambiguous interface to assist in browsing the categories and products.
The web store will use Secure Socket Layer (SSL) for security.
The initial inventory will be 100 items.
Expandable with unique codes, the owners can purchase to expand the inventory.
The minimum total inventory will be 20,000 items.
Since this will be a “Plug and Play device”, no software installation will be necessary.
This software will contain all of the basic needs to manage an online store.
Web Store is a new system designed for users new to the online E-commerce.
This will be a plug and play device with its own CPU and operating system.
The Web Store will be a quick and easy means to setup and operate an online Web Store.
The Web Store allows users to create, edit, and view accounts information.
It also allows the user to login/out of the system.
The Web Store assists the user in finding a specific item in the database.
It can receive search criteria, find search criteria, and return the results of the search.
The Web Store allows sales personnel to manage the product line shown on the web site.
The Web Store can provide temporary storage for customers shopping on the web.
Items from the inventory can be reserved in a virtual cart until the customer decides to purchase them.
The Web Store is used to approve and transfer payment from buyers when purchasing items in the cart.
System administrator is generally the owner that takes care of maintenance for the Web Store system.
The administrator will be in charge of assigning privileges of accounts.
Suggested more than one individual can have administrator privilege to ensure advisability.
Full documentation will be provided to the Administrator to assist with this process.
Sales personnel is generally the owner of the Web Store tasked with updating inventory and product line descriptions.
Once added, sales personnel can add, delete and change descriptions, pictures, prices, and when ready flag items for customers to buy.
A customer is an individual wishing to purchase inventory from GAMMA-J’s Web Store.
The Web store will have a variety of clientele depending upon the inventory loaded on the Key.
When creating a new account on Web Store it will default as a customer account.
Later if the account needs to be upgraded the administrator can accomplish this via the administrator interface.
Customers will be able to create accounts to store their customer profiles, configure contact information, view their purchase history, and confirm orders.
Customers will be able to register, log in, and log out of their accounts.
Furthermore, Customer profiles will also include payment information, such as the ability to store credit card information, and address information.
Products will be stored in multi-tiered categories; a category can contain sub categories or products.
The inventory management will allow for administrators to update the categories, the products placed in categories, and the specific product details.
Customers will also be able to add products into the shopping cart.
The shopping cart will clearly display the number of items in the cart, along with the total cost.
The customer will also be able to add to or remove products from the shopping cart prior to checkout and order confirmation.
Customers will be able to confirm the order after checkout.
If the order is incorrect, the customer will be able to revise and update their order.
The customer will then receive a confirmation email with the specific order details.
Customers will be presented with an unambiguous interface to assist in browsing the categories and products.
Customers will be able to search for products matching their search criteria.
The interface will be compatible with all major web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Navigator, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, and Safari.
The system will implement an Application Interface to allow for various plug-ins to interact with the system.
The plug-in API will be well documented and specifications will be provided to plug-in developers.